# Artifact Two - Algorithms and Data Structure: ABCU Hash Table Data Structure
[Link to the original and enhanced artifact](https://github.com/marcgregor/marcgregor.github.io/tree/main/Artifact%20Two%20-%20ABCU)

## Briefly Describe the Artifact. What is it? When was it Created?
	Originally, it was a binary search tree created in C++ for CS300 back in 23EW4. Used in the ABCU project two, it created a structure of various courses that a university offered. It gave the user the ability to load the courses, print all courses alphabetically, and search for a specific course – this will also show its required prerequisites. This was a program designed without security in mind, and why it’s so important to fixate on secure coding from the start. Smart pointers weren’t used, and the pointers weren’t deallocated propery, which would cause massive memory leak problems in the real world. I had to “patch” security, making it feel janky – had security been a main priority from the start, the code would not only be written more efficiently, it would feel more natively secure.
## Justify the Inclusion of the Artifact in your ePortfolio. Why did you Select this Item? What Specific Components of the Artifact Showcase your Skills and Abilities in Software Development? How was the Artifact Improved?
	My main justification in including this artifact is that I thought I could not only increase the overall efficiency of the algorithm by moving to a hash table, but I could also give the users additional options to manipulate the data. I was able to showcase my ability of adapting to any software need – after all, I moved from a binary search tree to a hash table – by managing the structure and algorithm change without it becoming too overwhelming. Adding more complexity to the program by giving users the options to add or delete a course showed that I have considerable skill and knowledge using C++. The overall efficiency of the program is improved with a hash table because the average time complexity for a hash table is O(1) when it comes to things like searching, insertion, and deletion, beating a binary search tree’s average time complexity of O(log(n)). On top of that, I fixed some concerning security issues that came with the original project. While not inherently dangerous, using namespace std can cause some ambiguity, so I removed it. More importantly, pointers weren’t being deallocated properly, meaning memory leaks were a huge liability.
## Did you Meet the Course Objectives you Planned to Meet with the Enhancement in Module One? Do you have any Updates to your Outcome-Coverage Plans?
	The following course objectives have been met:
 
### Outcome 1 - Employ strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision making in the field of computer science: 
I provided simple but concise in-line comments that provided not only the reasoning behind writing the code, but also the purpose of each main code block. I also used comments to split up the coding into different sections, such as initial setup and functions for user readability. I took the requirements given, gathered any additional information needed, and built the software around the requirements, while writing a narrative explaining the whys and hows of the enhancement. Finally, I wrote a reflective piece at the end of each enhancement to discuss my overall experience with the enhancement.
### Outcome 2 - Design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts:
These comments also provide a line of communication between the reader and developer, and this narrative allows the reader to understand what the artifact was, why I chose it, and also understand the improvements of the artifact. On top of that, the reflection describes my experience and explains what I considered to be the best overall practice to accomplishing the enhancement.
### Outcome 3 - Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution, while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices:
Outcome 3 is met for two main reasons – a more efficient structure is created and added complexity is implemented to give users more options. I used a flowchart to detail some of the added features in the enhancement plan. I programmed in a hash table to solve logic problems and increase efficiency, increasing the time complexity from O(log(n)) to O(1). I added complexity to the program, allowing users more options to manipulate the data. I used my reflection to discuss my experiences with the project in creating a more efficient system, as well as some issues I ran into.
### Outcome 5 - Develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources:
Security was a focus in this enhancement. I no longer implemented “using namespace std” to prevent any potential issues from ambiguity. I cleaned up any pointers that may have been causing memory leaks. I addressed these two original design flaws of the architecture and helped mitigate these possible vulnerabilities. There are also catches in place to make sure input data is valid. I discussed the security issues beforehand and why it was so important to fixate on security.
## Reflect on the Process of Enhancing and/or Modifying the Artifact. What did you Learn as you were Creating it and Improving it? What Challenges did you Face?
	It was clunky and frustrating at first trying to convert the binary search tree into a hash table, but once I was successful in the transition, I was able to add the added features without much issue. I learned that there are a lot more moving pieces in a hash table, and it took more than 150 additional lines of code, but I found it interesting to see the relationship between the two structures and how they’re built. My biggest challenge was trying to successfully set up the key. The key is an integer, and since the course ID was alphanumeric (ABCD123), I had to turn it into an arbitrary integer by using ASCII values of the string.

# Original Artifact

# Pseudocode

# Enhanced Artifact
