After a decision to change careers into the computer science field, the Southern New Hampshire University Computer Science Program has enlightened me throughout. As I am a new entry into the field, the program has helped me showcase strengths I never knew I even had. In just over a year, I have gone from knowing absolutely nothing about the field - coding, programming languages, architecture, among everything else, were completely foreign to me – to now believing that I would be a vital asset to any future employer. In this ePortfolio, there are three different artifacts that help showcase my skills – I took three projects from previous courses and enhanced them in some way based on three different categories: Software Design and Engineering, Algorithms and Data Structures, and Databases.

For Software Design and Engineering, I decided to enhance a slideshow of destinations originally built in Java using JFrame. Here, my adaptability skillset was featured, as I ported the entire slideshow into a new language – Python. My knowledge around Python was present, as I had to figure out what frameworks, libraries, and interfaces would work best for a slideshow. With Algorithms and Data Structures, the original project was a binary search tree that housed a university’s list of courses; this program also gave the user the ability to search for a specific course or print out the entire list. With this enhancement, I decided to convert the binary search tree into a hash table. This showed my ability to improve efficiency, increasing the time complexity from O(log(n)) - which was the binary search tree - to O(1). My robust and complex writing skill helped create additional data manipulation tools for the user, such as adding and removing a course. 
 
Finally, the last enhancement around Databases came from a single screenshot of a SQL database that stored customer data, as well as some ran queries. With this final enhancement, I created a program that integrated Python with SQLite to provide a user-friendly UI to manipulate a database full of customer data. I showcased my ability to basically build a program from the ground up, as the only thing I had to go off from was a single screenshot of a SQL database. My complex coding skill was visible, as I had to integrate SQLite with Python in order to provide a friendly UI experience for the user to manipulate the data. All three allowed me to display my skill in functional programming, as well as understanding requirements and following through. Outside of these three artifacts, I also created a code review, where I went over the original projects and their codes, as well as my plans for each of them. Here, my communication skills were vital, as I was able to discuss my decisions and ideas for each enhancement.

Outcome 1 - Employ strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision making in the field of computer science: 
In the code review, I used a collaborative friendly environment that allowed present and future audiences to understand my organizational decisions on why and how I enhanced the three artifacts. I used my ability to interact with a diverse audience by providing a clear code review that gave both audio and video explanations on the old projects, what the purpose of them were, the old code, and what I had envisioned for the enhancements. This setup will help anyone in a team, whether as a single individual, or as a group, understand the review and the reasoning behind my decisions. As a result, future stakeholders will understand why I enhanced the artifacts and why the result was successfully accomplished. Finally, the code review allowed me to demonstrate any experiences and best practices I discovered working in a collaborative environment, as I gave oral proof on some of the things I ran into while working on the original projects and provided it in a video form that could be shared with multiple people.
In the three enhanced artifacts, I provided simple but concise in-line comments that provided not only the reasoning behind writing the code, but also the purpose of each main code block. I also used comments to split up the coding into different sections, such as initial setup and functions for user readability. I took the requirements given, gathered any additional information needed, and built the software around the requirements, while writing a narrative explaining the whys and hows of the enhancement. Finally, I wrote a reflective piece at the end of each enhancement to discuss my overall experience with the enhancement. These showcased abilities support every decision I’ve made and will ease the mind of any possible stakeholder who may have been nervous with the amount of change. 

Outcome 2 - Design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts:
My ePortfolio was designed, developed, and delivered with specific audiences in mind. The code review provided oral and visual communication that provided sound knowledge and information on the old projects and code, as well as the planned enhancement for each artifact. I went through each line of code to show the audience not only the purpose of the original artifact, but how the code worked. The narratives provided for each enhancement gave clear written instruction on the original piece of software, such as the original purpose and when it was created. These narratives also justified the reason why the artifact was chosen, and how it showcased my skills and abilities. Alongside the narratives were the old and new code for the artifacts, providing a helpful cue on how each artifact was enhanced. Finally, the ePortfolio was set up in an easy-to-understand layout for any specific audience (such as a prospective employer) to navigate, making it easy for them to view my work, skills, and abilities. 
With the code review, along with each narrative and the self-assessment, I demonstrated the ability to discuss my experiences and what I felt were best practices – in the code review, I discussed how using namespace std was bad practice because of possible ambiguity issues, so I had planned on removing that in the enhancement. In my artifact three narrative I also described the severe vulnerabilities that come with querying data, so I discussed how combating SQL injections with mitigation efforts like parameterized queries is vital. In the artifacts, the in-line comments also provide a line of communication between the reader and developer, giving them necessary context in how the code is formed and the reasoning behind it.

Outcome 3 - Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution, while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices:
In the second artifact revolving around algorithms and data structures, outcome 3 is met for two main reasons – a more efficient structure is created and added complexity is implemented to give users more options. I used a flowchart to detail some of the added features in the enhancement plan. I used my robust and efficient code writing skill to implement a hash table to solve logic problems and to increase efficiency, as the average time complexity for a hash table is O(1) when it comes to things like searching, insertion, and deletion, beating a binary search tree’s average time complexity of O(log(n)). This additionally showed my ability to adapt, as I needed to convert an entire data structure, which added about 150 additional lines of code. I added complexity to the program, allowing users more options to manipulate the data, such as adding and removing courses from the structure. I used my reflection to discuss my experiences with the project in creating a more efficient system, as well as some issues I ran into – for example, the hash key is an integer, but the course ID was alphanumeric (e.g., CS499). To make it work, I had to turn the ID into an arbitrary integer by using ASCII values of the ID string.

Outcome 4 - Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals:
With software design and engineering in artifact one, I was able to use my innovated skills and robust and efficient writing techniques to implement the solution of porting to a different language. I was able to prevent errors, such as out of scope values in lists, and I used my ability to follow the SDLC in order to produce the slideshow in a realistic schedule. My Python skills were on hand, as I demonstrated industry-standard software designs - I followed all standard conventions for Python (including naming conventions such as naming variables lowercase_underscore_lowercase). I declared string variables ahead of time, so I could reuse them in multiple situations, preventing the constant problem of reusing code, and I kept all related code blocks together. I used iterative testing by gradually making small changes to the program based on feedback (from both the enhancement plan and the initial enhancement), such as adding in additional comments about the purpose of the project and cleaning up the slideshow – I fixed any typos I found, as well as changing the hyperlink to make it more in-line with the rest of the slideshow. I kept making these small changes until I was satisfied with the slideshow. I discussed my experience in the reflection – I found it enjoyable to see the differences between two languages, and how they were able to create the same program (before I made final enhancements) despite these differences. I found using tkinter was the best practice available in order to create a slideshow in Python, and despite the differences, it was set up similar to Java’s JFrame.
In artifact three dealing with databases, outcome 4 is met because I was able to build a front-end user-friendly program with back-end data storage capability – while I used SQLite on this enhancement, it shouldn’t be too much of a challenge to swap it out with full SQL or NoSQL/MongoDB. My creativity skills were present as I used tkinter to create a treeview object that allowed the information from the database to be viewed. I demonstrated my ability to use the SDLC to create a realistic production schedule – I knew that I wouldn’t be satisfied with a full stack website since I was still in my first full stack course at the time, so I made a change to create an application instead, ensuring I would get done on time while still being able to successfully implement all the stages. I used iterative testing by gradually making small changes to the program based on feedback and how I felt how the program was doing at the time, as well as from trial and error – I kept making small increments on the grid layout until I had the app set up how I wanted. Once again, my robust code writing skills were demonstrated as I decided to add on to the complexity of the program by adding in a sort feature by clicking on the headings of the table, which required creating a function to enable sorting in the treeview. I produced Python industry-standard designs by adhering to all Python conventions as well as “sectioning” off the code blocks for readability. Finally, in my reflection, I discussed my experience on how I found this enhancement to be the most enjoyable of the three. I felt I got to use all of my techniques and skills I learned throughout the program to their full extent, as I created a program from scratch.

Outcome 5 - Develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources:
For the second artifact, security was important. I used my secure coding skills to address a couple potential design flaws found in the original program - I no longer implemented “using namespace std” to prevent any potential issues from ambiguity. Pointers were not properly deallocated in the original, which would be a major vulnerability causing memory leaks, so I cleaned up any pointers. There are also catches in place to make sure input data is valid. I discussed my experience with the security issues beforehand and why it was so important to fixate on security – memory leaks are a major problem with programs written in C++. Future changes to security would be to replace the pointer with much safer smart pointers, further mitigating any possible memory leak exploits.
Dealing with databases and with how common and serious SQL injections can be, security was a main focus for artifact three. Using my skills to address, find, and fix security flaws, I understood that a plain query is a major door opener for an SQL injection to happen, as without any safeguards, a bad actor can write multiple queries as input, causing unintended actions, such as unauthorized access or deletion/corruption of data. My ability to write safe code was once again important, as the main way I solved this was to use parameterized queries, which would prevent anyone from making additional queries while inputting data. This fixed a potential serious design flaw and will ensure the data entered is valid. Future goals include adding more OOP features and enclosing it in a secured class, and I explained in detail why security needs to come first in my reflection – if you wait until the end to implement safety features, chances are the code is going to end up clunky and less secure than code that was secure from the beginning.
